The Essential Role of the Business Analyst.
I've seen many cases where the business analyst role is
underappreciated or deemed not necessary.
That, to me, is a huge mistake and can cost organizations money,
time, and the loss of customers.
I'm sure I don't need to convince you, but you may need to convince others,
such as managers or leaders,
that the role of the business analyst is critical to
the success of all businesses.
I hope that some of the material in this course will help you do just that.
It's essential that the business analyst's role is to have a clear,
lean, and agile process to determine requirements that are truly
essential and would add value to the business.
So what I am saying is that in our search for those requirements that add value,
we better have a solid and lean process to do so.
That is the underpinnings of this module and in fact, the entire course.
There are many designations, titles, or monikers of an analyst,
but they should all have the same focus,
adding value to the business. Well,
everyone is an analyst almost every day of their life.
Let's say you want to buy a new TV.
Well, how big? Does it need to be a smart TV?
Will I need a wall bracket?
Will I need delivery?
And, of course, what will it cost?
Is it worth the price?
Or, in other words, will I get the ROI that I expect, return on investment?
We do things everyday that require our business analysis skills. Of course,
the main title or name of role is business analyst.
But certainly there are others, many others,
such as business architect, process analyst,
systems analyst, project manager, and a host of others. A title as just that,
a title.
Many people in an organization perform business analysis work every day,
so your title may vary, as well.
It is what you do and how you do it that is important, not what you are labeled.
There are likely as many definitions of business analysis
as there are analysts on the planet, but here is a basic definition.
Business analysis is the practice of adding business value by enabling
change in an organizational context, by defining needs and recommending
solutions that deliver value to stakeholders.
You can't add business value without change, and maybe
even very significant change. Resistance to change may be
a headwind to your activities, so be aware of that,
please.
The critical outcome or mission of your work is adding value to the
business through changing the way business is conducted.
Don't forget that. That should be your elevator soundbite when you're asked
what you do for a living. Key takeaway; value through change.
And how exciting is that?
That is why I love performing analysis activities.
Also,
the role of an analyst can best be justified to management if
you can continually add value to the business, don't lose sight of that.